hello and welcome back the American
novelist Jody Pico has sold millions of
books all over the world
gripping readers with ethical dilemmas
and human drama her latest novel is
another thought provoker centered around
the Holocaust it explores the issues of
forgiveness justice and revenge chase
with us now morning those are three
pretty big topics on there right Jonah
sort of do set it out for us so yeah I
would be happy to so the storyteller is
really the story of sage singer she's a
23 year old baker in a small New England
town and she's a bit of a recluse she
has a scar on her face she doesn't get
along with people and she's attending a
grief group because her mother recently
passed away there she meets a very
unlikely friend 95 year old Joseph Weber
who is everyone's favorite adoptive
grandpa a retired teacher a good guy in
the town she's never met him before and
he asks her for a favor he would like
her to help him die not because he's ill
but quite the contrary he thinks he's
lived as long as a punishment because he
used to be a Nazi and he thinks he
deserves to die the question is since
sages grandmother is a Holocaust
survivor if she chooses to help him is
it mercy forgiveness revenge justice
what a question
mm-hmm it is an extraordinary story
because you go through the point of view
of various of the different characters
including sages grandmother yes and
quite I don't really know how to
describe it but it is quite horrific
some of the details isn't it it is and
what did you speak you spoke to lots of
survivors did you I did
I did research with multiple Holocaust
survivors and of course you know hearing
them tell their stories and and crying
with them and live reliving them was
extremely emotional and difficult there
was a man named Bernie whose father was
shot to death in front of him and whose
mother promised him that when it was his
turn to go he'd be shot through the
heart and not the head so you wouldn't
see any brains there's a woman named
Gerda who survived a force 350 mile
march she says because she was wearing
ski boots in June when she was taken
from her house and so she made it
through a winter trekking all that way
she was one of 150 women who survived
4,000 began there was Manya who studied
German in school and became fluent and
of having that save her life multiple
times during the war because she was in
the secretarial position interesting
hearing you talk of that because all
those stories became into open into one
character exactly yes and you have as
well as that many of these extraordinary
stories there's there's very touching
scenes and many linked with her memory
that your characters memories of baking
yes right she is a bacon right that's
something you're you're very keen on as
well as that's a kind of personal touch
I have a very good Baker but I just says
well I did do the research for it I went
and I worked with an industrial baker to
learn how I would go about creating
stuff on a large scale like sage wood at
her job and there are so many beautiful
metaphors about baking you know the idea
that if you have the right ingredients
and a little heat and a little magic
things can rise not just bread but love
and dictatorships as well very
interesting it's sort of some of it is
set in the bakery as well I'm I'm just
into lugan you look at the front of the
book it's got all these names all those
names people who were survivors or who
are they know this was a wonderful idea
by my fantastic publisher hodder and
stoughton that this book might be
dedicated to my UK fans who've been so
supportive UK yes so all the names in
the front and back of the book are the
names of fans of mine who managed to
submit a request and managed to get into
the book they get a name check they do
and I am happy to report that again
because of that support in this book
debuted at number one in the UK yeah we
just found out so I'm very excited yeah
and now is it true on a very trivial
note but is it true that you used to
write for Wonder Woman I did I wrote
five issues of the comic book series of
Wonder Woman so you wrote the story
lines never back yeah but how did that
was that just a job or you got final I
had written a book called the tenth
circle that had a graphic novel embedded
inside it and someone at DC Comics read
it and they wrote me an email asking if
I'd be interested in writing a few
issues of Wonder Woman and at the time I
really I'd had no time and I was about
to say no and I was telling my kids
about it at dinner and they all looked
at me and said mom you have to write
wonderful yes I did so yeah wonderful
moon to the Holocaust and they already
writing something else now how does it
work
yes I am about 200 pages into the 2014
book so you can expect to see that and
it's about can you give us any clues it
is a lot about the grief the grief and
cognition of elephants elephants have
very elaborate grieving rituals that we
usually attribute to humans it's
fascinating to watch and the one of the
characters in it is a woman who studies
that who disappears and her daughter ten
years later tries to find her when she's
13 years old
it also has I think the best twist I've
written in 20 years so I'm very excited
for your British fans nobody you see is
thank you for having me I really
appreciate it Jodie pecos book the
storyteller is out right now as we just
told you Thank You Jodie that's pretty
much all we've got time for this morning
we of course will be here from 6:00
tomorrow morning I will be joined by the
writer kay mellow he'll be talking about
her new series The Syndicate
and about working with director Steven
Spielberg Spielberg we will see you
tomorrow have a great day okay
a windfall rear